Roger Staubach, trying to think, got a little football autograph for him.
Lots of governors.
Yeah, governors, yeah, yeah.
Even mansions, governor's mansion, a time or two.
Did you eat in any astonishing places?
Yeah, sure did.
It's kind of hard to come back to McDonald's.
No, it's very, very astonishing places.
You're honored.
I mean, they're trying to wine and dine you in.
Take some of the states you go to, like New Mexico or some of the smaller states, they really roll out the carpet for you.
Not the larger ones don't.
Governor of Virginia, got to talk with him.
Pardon me, go ahead.
Who?
The Governor of Virginia.
Lady Bird's son-in-law.
Yeah, right.
Rob.
Chuck Robb.
Yeah, Chuck Robb.
And Alan, got to meet him.
I was there twice, got to see Alan after that.
As you went to all these places, did you get any feel for the national impression of veterinary medicine?
What are they?
I think nationally the people respect them, hold them with pretty high honor.
They feel like they have got good integrity, you know, that they do the best they can.
And what about their impression of Texas and of the veterinary medicine program in Texas?
It's very good, very favorable, yeah.
They always kid about the Aggies, of course.
But like I said, regardless of where I go, there would always be an Aggie there.
Whether it's Japan or France or Australia or any of the states, you run into Aggies everywhere.
It's amazing.
Quite often did somebody woke up showing you a ring?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's amazing.
All right.
When that year was over, how did you feel?
You feel like, gee, what happened?
No, it, Martha and I have talked about it often.
We really don't know how we did it because you're always, I was going 42 weekends that year.
And she went with you most of the time?
She went with me most, almost all the time.
I actually did.
When it was over with, two things I remember.
One thing, you wake up in the middle of the night and you wonder what hotel you're in.
And the second, you wonder where's the bathroom.
And that took two or three months to get over.
I don't know, it's just traveling.
Did you ever, on all those trips, did you ever get sick?
Yeah, did get sick once in Southern Valley, Idaho.
Had the flu or something like that, and it was miserable.
Anybody ever serve any astonishingly unusual food?
Yes, in Japan.
I don't know what all we ate there.
We ate Zen food in one place.
We ate, of course, all kinds of raw fish that I swore I'd never eat, but when you're their guest of honor, well, you try to honor them.
No monkey?
No monkey.
No snake?
No, not far as I know.
to raise some money in South Korea for Missouri.
They promised us in advance, we won't feed you any dog or any cat or any monkey or any snake.
But there were some other things that I'm not sure.
For that whole year, you were on leave, and then when you came back, what was it like to get re-immersed?
It took a while to get adjusted to it, really.
Especially when you sit there and wonder what have I got to get ready next for, you know, for the speech and this type of thing.
Because I tried to, I'm not a very good speaker, but I tried to do the best preparation I could.
And when I did, that's why I got so involved, wherever I go I tried to include the local
you know, history or something like that and particularly history.
For example, I was in Madison, Wisconsin to give a speech there.
I remember that.
And I went up to the state capitol building and went up the rotunda and they had all these statues up there and there was a, I had a story to tell about that.
And so you use that to introduce your speech and then how do you tie it up?
It took me a while to get over having to do something like that.
Now, who made all of the travel arrangements for you?
We did, yeah.
Here?
Yeah.
We generally used Hall of Soul Travel Agency.
They did very well for it.
So it was not national, it was y'all did.
Yeah.
There is a way you can do it through the national headquarters, but we tried them and we found it was so
They really don't realize how College Station is to get in and out of, so as far as air transport.
So we, it's best to do it here.
That's what we did.
All right, you said 42, you were gone 42 weekends.
42 weekends out of one year.
Any other measurements that you?
No, we went to like 48 states, I don't know how many,
Don't know how many miles.
I figured once about a million and a half or something like that.
It's amazing.
Did you remember any real travel snafus where you got left here?
Yeah, well, we had some real travel snafus at the time too.
We had to go to
Fort Lauderdale, Florida from Charlotteville, North Carolina.
To get there, we got there from East Lansing, Michigan.
The only way we could get back, with that cost about ten times as much, we had to fly back to East Lansing and there to Chicago, from Chicago to Nashville, from Nashville to
Miami, Miami.
To Fort Lauderdale.
We got there in the middle of the night.
By the time we got to the hotel, our room was gone.
He knew it was reserved.
They got us in another room about a mile away, but we had to be back there the next day for the meeting that was supposed to be at.
You went to Japan.
What other nations?
Australia.
That was the longest trip a flight ever took as far as misery, you might say.
Of all of the places where you landed, which one was the most fun, the most enjoyable?
Of all the places you land, which was the most fun?
Gosh.
You mean enjoyable at the being there?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Gosh, that's a good question.
The way you were treated, the way they fed you, where they put you up, and so forth.
Oh, gosh.
Probably they treated us best of all.
I think the best was Indianapolis, Indiana.
It's just, you know, the way we were treated, they were just this.
But they treated us very in Japan.
They treated us very well there.
They met us at the airport.
We had to take a connecting flight.
We had a translator.
It took us.
We didn't go through the usual security.
We went through a VIP thing.
They drove us out the plane.
The plane was waiting for us, got on, took off, flew across the country.
Then they had a chauffeur limousine pick us up there.
We drove the place.
Coming back, we took the bullet train.
And all along the way, they just leaned over backwards to help us.
Big snafu there.
I shouldn't mention this.
But on the bullet train, you're supposed to keep your ticket to get off.
Martha left her ticket in the pocket on the train.
I thought we were going to have an international incident because we had to go upstairs to security and then went through the whole thing.
But she's still embarrassed about that.
But I didn't know it.
I just happened to put my ticket in my coat pocket all the time and I just happened to have it that way.
When you got back, what reception did you get from your colleagues?
From where?
No, no, when you finished that year.
Oh, they wondered where I'd been.
No, very, very cordial, very cordial.
All right.
By then, Dean Shelton had retired.
Right.
And who followed him as dean?
Shattuck, John Shattuck, yeah.
And he came from?
Ohio, Illinois.
Was he dean at Illinois?
No, he was department head there.
Department head came here.
And he was dean about how long?
About five years, I think.
Four or five years, yeah.
All right, and Dean Gage, his first name Dean, had been the exec, the, he had replaced Wally Bay when he retired.
Right.
And did he overlap under Shattuck?
Yes, a little bit, yes.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, he did.
In a fairly short period of time.
Am I correct in understanding that he was the day-to-day manager for?
Yeah.
I can't remember exactly how long he stayed, but of course he went on up.
Then Shattuck is followed by?
By interim dean Bob Plater.
Plater?
Plater, yeah.
P-L-A-T-E-R.
Yeah.
And then whom?
Then Richard Adams.
The current dean.
Yeah.
All right.
Bob was here a little over a year, year and a half, I guess.
What, during the Shattuck years, what changes were there?
diminished changes.
He felt like there were too many departments and to make it more administratively feasible and I guess say the department had salary.
He, we had seven departments, he created five departments.
He was going to have three, but he combined there were some
They bind veterinary public health and anatomy to one department.
Right, and so you ended up in?
Anatomy, yeah.
Anatomy.
Yeah.
Describe his leadership style.
His leadership style was, is much different from George Shelton.
He's a very articulate speaker, but he,
He would make decisions fairly rapidly and sometimes didn't seem like much thought went into him, as far as I'm concerned.
Anyway, he made them very, very quick.
And during the Shelton and Shattuck years, well, in fact, in the last 20, 25 years,
the faculty has become geographically far more diverse.
Yeah, they have.
Right, yeah.
And I'm assuming far more doctoral, PhD.
Right, right.
Pure veterinarians, yeah.
Particularly in the basic sciences.
And Shattuck was pretty much, he really,
emphasized research much more than George Shelton did.
I mean, he really, well, research was the thing, period.
If the.
And NIH funds was.
If the faculty had voted their feelings about Dr. Shattuck, what do you think would have been the majority?
Majority?
Well, they did vote.
Did they?
Yeah.
Oh, I didn't know.
They had a, after he's named dean, they had a faculty meeting
I did not go to it because I was on the search committee of that too and I didn't feel like it was appropriate.
It was announced that he was coming and the faculty voted to send him a letter asking him not to come.
So he came under, you've got to admire him, he came under some very almost hostile
Did the faculty have a favorite you think at that time?
Yes, yeah.
Are you at liberty to say who you think it was?
Well, there were two names sent forward, Dean Gage and J.D.
Crady.
So his name wasn't even sent forward.
Who was president then?
President Mobley?
Yeah, Mobley, yeah.
But the vice president for research.
I don't know.
I can't remember his name.
He's from Illinois and knew Shattuck up there.
I think that's what happened anyway.
All right.
And then the selection of Adams, was that a popular choice as far as you know?
Pretty much so, yeah.
It boiled down to two people, I think.
I wasn't on the search committee, so I don't know.
But just talked to my colleagues.
the present dean of Missouri was, was looked on in favor as well as the dean that was there.
I mean, Joe Carnegie was looked up very, very, very, but he did not have the, the, I guess, what hurt administrative experience that Richard Adams had.
Well, I guess.
This unusual connection between Missouri and Texas.
Yeah.
As far as I'm aware, it wasn't planned and wasn't deliberate.
No, it wasn't.
No, no.
It wasn't.
It's ironic that both of them had been A&M graduates, both Aggies, and they came back here.
Well, and Shelton, it was not because he was a Texan.
No.
No, it wasn't.
He was the best candidate.
I mean, you were there.
And really, we had a lot of good candidates.
I thought for the search committee when Dean Gage and J.D.
McCready, another, the number three in that group was Bill Jenkins.
And of course he went to be dean at LSU, now he's president of the university.
system over there.
Three good candidates.
During these recent decades, have women been well accepted as faculty and students and so forth, you think?
Yeah.
Are there any women that you think deserve particular credit for being good role model faculty members here?
Sure, there's a couple.
Of course, Bonnie Beaver would be one I think would be a good one, Bonnie Beaver.
Another one is, well, there's several very good ones.
The second one I think of after Bonnie Beaver would be Debbie Kochever.
Debbie Kochever?
K-O-C-H-E-V-E-A-R.
She's in Physiology, Pharmacology.
She's very, very good.
We won't hold her against her because she's a Rice graduate of course she came here.
But Debbie, he's a real, real model.
And it's been considered, her name's been mentioned for hire.
Are there some faculty with international backgrounds that also deserve or are worthy of mention?
Well, there's some here that are researchers.
Steve Safe is our, I guess, our leading researcher as far as, you know, he's in his chair and is internationally known.
He's not a veterinarian, but he is international and he's very respected.
He's from Canada.
He'll be the first one I think of.
We had one in the department, Jose Pediatra.
I can't spell it.
I'll have to get it for you.
He's fairly well-respected.
Gosh.
Dense.
Those are the two I think I got first of all.
In recent years, what does the Texas A&M College of Air Medicine do best?
What's it do best?
I think it does best with,
As far as teaching or research or just what it does best.
I think it does best with its, with its spinal medicine and surgery.
Small animal?
Medicine and surgery.
I think it's very well respected for its contributions here.
It does very well in parts of equine medicine, pretty well there.
In basic sciences, well, toxicology I think has become more well known for toxicology, particularly since Steve Safe has been fairly well involved.
And of course, in genetics,
WOMAC, W-O-M-A-C internationally known.
It's recognized there.
So it's got a lot of recognition.
But I'd say veterinarians out in the field, the small animal surgery medicine would be the one that they'd think of most.
And you said we would be in the top few.
I'd say in the top five now.
Who would be the other, some of the others?
The other ones up there would be California Davis, the, gosh, Penn is always up there, University of Pennsylvania, Cornell.
I think North Carolina State's moved up in that group.
I guess that's about it, really.
But it varies with the area.
Like K-State, I think, if you talk about food animal medicine, K-State had to be the leader there.
All right.
Then, of all the research you've done, of what are you most proud?
Well, probably my rabies research.
Even though I didn't get to publish it because I was going to continue it on, I had some problems with animal welfare people.
So it, I guess that'd be the most important.
And what are you working on now and planning to work on next?
Well, I'm not doing any right now.
Just full-time teaching.
About three years ago, they started a program.
It was out at the FSIS Training Center, which is down the road here, the Don Houston Training Center.
They bring in USDA employees from all over the country, and they've been having training programs.
They started an educational program.
where they bring students in for four or people in for four weeks and give them an intense background in food safety, including microbiology, the whole works, and they get five hours of credit for it.
Dr. Bratton, our chair, they asked me if I would teach out there part-time.
In other words, I'm still full-time here, but teach out there and not do my research for a while and do that.
Well, I started three years ago, and then last year they started bringing veterinarians in and doing the same thing for them.
So it's a graduate level there.
So because I'm doing that, there's not time to do that.
And they pay money, which comes to the department, so I've got money just like I would have for research.
I could do research if I could get some time, so I'm not doing it right now.
Throughout all these now 40 years,
What is a normal workday schedule for you?
Normal workday schedule?
Generally, I come in sometimes 4-8.
Generally, it's about 8-15, 8-20.
I leave about 5-30, sometimes 6.
And where do you have lunch?
I have lunch right here.
Do you bring it?
I bring it generally, yeah.
What is lunch compared to what?
What Martha has in the refrigerator.
Generally an apple or orange or a banana, maybe a couple, three cookies, and then a sandwich of some type.
And what do you do for recreation?
Recreation?
Boy, that's a good question.
Go home and relax.
Because you and I play the same amount of golf, which is zero.
Yeah, zero, yeah, and that's one reason.
Martha said, if you're tired, you don't play golf, what you're going to do is stay around the house all day.
Recreation, I read.
I just read.
I like to do stuff outside, but when you have rain all the time, that kind of discourages any outside activities.
So I guess I don't watch much TV.
I like to listen to radio talk shows at night and read.
Do you all do much traveling these days?
Do some traveling.
We're getting ready to go to Australia next month.
I've got a meeting down there.
I represent the AVMA on the World Veterinary Association Council, so I got.
Are you going to Melbourne?
Melbourne, right, Melbourne.
Have you seen the fairy penguins?
No, I've never seen them.
Oh.
You want to go, it's about 25 or 30 miles up.
Back off.
What are the joys of being a professional veterinarian?
Joys?
First of all, being a profession.
What's satisfying about this?
Satisfying?
You feel like you're doing something for our animal kingdom and also human beings because I'm involved in public health.
To know that for years I've been involved with the rabies prevention programs for our students are concerned.
We no longer have been that closely involved because now they have to have vaccination for the InterVeterinary School.
But I used to do it after they got in veterinary school.
But knowing that you protect them and you're there for source information, it gives you some satisfaction that way.
But just knowing that you can prevent people from having some type of misery like that, it's part of it.
And of course, I'm not involved in treating animals or anything like that, but teaching about how animals' diseases are transmitted, this type of thing, gives me some satisfaction.
And what about the joy and pride of being a part of this institution?
Well, it makes you feel proud.
When you go anywhere, particularly in Texas, they know where you're from, but anywhere else, they know where you're from, and they give you, I mean, it makes you feel good.
They give you some degree of honor, yeah.
Have there been any missed opportunities for this College of Veterinary Medicine?
Yeah.
Why?
Well, a few years back when Dr. Chattuck was here, we had the opportunity, I thought, to be the number one in food safety in the country, not the world.
And I'd worked out a program with UC Davis, people there, where we'd have a graduate program, one thing.
The students spend part of the time there, part of the time here, and we had this emphasis training center.
I thought that would be a great so-called program to have a graduate degree in food safety, master of science in food safety, and I think the veterinarians are missing not having that.
There's no such thing like that.
Anyway, we did not get the backing for that to get funding.
I think that's a missed opportunity.
Did anybody else do it?
No one else did it, no.
Is it worth trying again?
Yeah, I think it's worth trying again, yeah, but I want to be sure I had backing from
The dean's office.
I just didn't get it before.
And other missed opportunities.
There's always missed opportunities, I guess.
Are there any courses or course emphases that you think in hindsight we might have done?
Yes.
I think we've abandoned food animal medicine to a great degree.
And this includes poultry, for example.
It used to be a required course in poultry diseases.
There's no longer any.
It's optional and very few people take it.
And so veterinarians, as time goes on,
less looked to for expertise in diseases of poultry.
That's one thing.
Food animals, I think there ought to be some way to emphasize that more.
I realize all these students seem to be that they want to go to companion animals.
We need them there, but they're not aware of what's available in food animal medicine.
I'm involved right now with a group of veterinarians in a dairy milk quality program where it goes all the way from the cow to the bottle, so to speak, and we're going to try to develop a program.
We've got patent pending on this process to get the veterinarian back into food safety as far as dairy is concerned.
They're just not using veterinarians like they could and it means a lot to have safe food.
Places like New Zealand have this now and we don't.
So, and they're exporting about 80% of their milk to other parts of the world because they demand that high quality.
We don't have it.
We've got good milk but it's not as high quality as it could be.
So, yes, I think we're missing opportunities there and I'm biased, of course, but what we emphasize, we're giving people what's more visible.
We tend to be more
I think trying to imitate the physician more as far as our training where we ought to go a lot more into economics of food, animal medicine, this type of thing.
To whom do you feel the greatest gratitude looking back over all of these years?
Greatest gratitude?
Who would you, if they could all be here, who would you think most?
I guess Dr. Jaggi for bringing me here to begin with.
I wouldn't have come if he hadn't, you know, paved the way for me to be here.
So I guess the greatest gratitude would be him.
But there's other people like Dr. Mellif was very supportive.
Dr. Grumbles, I didn't mention him at microbiology.
I taught part-time in microbiology for many years and he was always very supportive and he's one of those kind of people that always ask how you're doing.
And of course, Dean Shelton, when he was dean here, very supportive.
I always knew I could go in and talk to him if I had some problems.
It hadn't always been that way, if that makes sense.
So several people, but I'd say George Shelton.
Let's make believe that now you've been hired as the consultant to advise the leadership of this college and of this university about the future.
What advice would you give them?
First of all, I would like to see department heads less dictatorial and more democratic.
I'm not sure I want them to be elected by the faculty, but I think they should be more supportive so there could be more interchange between departments of people so there's not such a solid wall there.
And even though they've made great steps towards collaborative research, there ought to be collaborative teaching.
It should be more transparent than it is.
That's one thing.
Somehow change the administrative setup where it's not an impedent, not a blockage or inhibitory, but more facilitate.
There's a lot of lip service to that, but it's not enough work done that way.
That's one thing I like to see.
Would you change the enrollment size?
No, I don't think so.
I regret all I have lately as far as vet students is lecture courses and with 120, 25 students, you don't get to know them in three hours or four hours a week.
You just, you can't, I can't.
And to me, there ought to be some way
I hate to teach sections, three, four sections, but at least some way to, so you can facilitate knowing those students better so you can, you know, it's hard getting feedback from them, you know.
You're an excellent teacher, you know, your feedback's very important.
And that amorphous mass out there, all you hear sometimes are whiners and the complainers, and you don't hear enough from the people that you want feedback from.
As far as you're aware, is the method of the admissions process, the selection process, is it reasonably appropriate?
No.
It's too much geared towards avoiding
Legal action, the way I look at it.
They're too afraid somebody will... Now this is my impression, that there will be some legal action taken from them because they did not let this person in because of some
racial or some gender preference.
I think that they ought to, if they've got 60% female supply or 5% of this supply, they shouldn't have to take 60%.
They should take, maybe take 80% if need to, but take 40% if they take the best people.
You're saying take the best?
Take the best, yes.
And secondly, although we're funded by the state of Texas, we now can take just a few from out of state, but states like New Mexico and all the states don't have veterinary schools.
We ought to have them the same opportunity to come here as we do.
They say, well, we're training people by the schools.
A lot of those people are going to stay.
A lot of those people are going to go back to New Mexico, but they're going to be very good supporters of Texas A&M.
And I think we ought to break down the state barriers.
I've got only two more items that I can think of.
What have we not touched that we should have?
Gosh, I've done such a poor job even thinking.
You've done splendidly.
What have we not touched?
I think you touched on everything.
Oh, let's see.
I thought of one.
Have you ever had any outside pressure, somebody try to tell you from the
higher administration beyond the vet school or from politics or some important Texan try to tell you what grade to give somebody or?
Yeah, I've had that.
Have you?
Yeah, I ignore it.
Phone calls or letters or what?
I've had letters.
I had one student I gave a B to just last year or the year before last in the graduate course.
He was going to sue me because he thought he deserved an A. I told him, I figured your grade out and it's a B.
But no legislator ever called you?
No.